US President Joe Biden says Israel's
prime minister isn't doing enough to
reach a Gaza ceasefire deal and secure
the release of captives his comments
follow the recovery of the body of a US
Israeli citizen along with five others
in southern Gaza on Saturday Benyamin
Netanyahu has asked for forgiveness for
not bringing the six captives home and
has called for Unity across Israel
that's as tens of thousands of
demonstrators have taken to the streets
in Israeli cities for the third day
they're demanding Netanyahu agrees to a
ceasefire deal to bring the remaining
Israeli captives
home one of the sticking points during
Seas fine negotiations has been the
Philadelphia Corridor which is the
buffer zone between Egypt and Gaza it's
14 kilometers long and it represents the
entirety of the Border area between Gaza
and Egypt Israel managed the area
controlling the movement of goods and
people until it withdrew its forces from
Gaza in 2005 Egyptian forces took over
patrols but Israel still inspected all
deliveries into the territory this may
Israel said it was taking control of the
buffer zone both Egypt and Hamas
strongly oppose Israel's control over
the
corridor joining me now here on set to
discuss all of this is Hassan barari
professor of international Affairs at
Kut University good to have you with us
so is this now the sticking point in
these ceasefire talks it is indeed I
just um listened to Netanyahu speaking
in a press conference just you know half
an hour ago and he made it perfectly
clear that Israel will not withdraw from
the Philadelphia uh
Corridor and doesn't seem like his
minister of defense is on the same page
with him on this issue of the
Philadelphia well yeah but the the
problem here that the the bone of
contention between them is a personal
and secondly is what is what should
comes first for Gant you know the
release of the hostages is very
important and staying there with maybe
in danger and jeopardize their lives so
there's here a problem of of order
between both of them but we know that
there a lot of personal things between
the two the two people and we know that
this government is right-wing government
is an extremist government that has been
committing a genocidal War and the
seconding point is there I'm not saying
that Israel will uh continue uh um you
know kind of uh uh committed to this
because they cannot concede in in the
press conference uh but it's it's
obvious that Netanyahu has been adopting
this position for such a long time uh
with the purpose of undermining the
peace talks and the pressure or the
difference not only between the Prime
Minister and the Israeli Minister of
Defense Joe Biden's comments show
there's some daylight
between the Prime Minister and the US
president as well right there is a huge
uh I would say a huge gap between both
of them now when it comes the need to
get the deal done uh Biden feels that he
doesn't have more time but the question
is is how to to pressure Netanyahu uh
just saying that Netanyahu is not doing
enough no Netanyahu is doing too much
enough to undermine the talks and to
undermine even Biden's proposal and he
knows that he has kind of impunity so
whatever he does the the US is
continuing of course to send military
weapons and AIDS to Israel so you know
this reported of a take it or leave it
deal how seriously will that be taken by
Israel when the US provides military and
diplomatic cover if this is not linked
to a price tag imposed in Israel I don't
think that Netanyahu would budge uh but
also maybe the United States can come up
with different argument that had the
Israeli government signed the deal uh
the sex hostages would have been
released or have been um have been uh
saved uh there's a lot to add to the
internal debate in Israel but the
Americans are not doing that they're
just saying you know needs to do this or
that what they need to step in and be a
partner in in the debate in Israel
because there Dynamics in Israel uh that
the American are not really exploiting
uh on that point we're seeing the
pressure building up domestically the
protest actually continuing in Tel Aviv
and the live pictures we're showing from
West Jerusalem we're seeing moves we're
seeing those statements from the US
we're seeing moves from the UK to at
least hold some weapon Supply is the
pressure
converging internationally and
domestically on Netanyahu yeah it has
been converging for a long time now but
the question it's not enough to make
Netanyahu Bud simply because Netanyahu
uh his his number one objective now is
to keep his Coalition with the far uh
rightwing in and and intact because it's
Survival game for him he knows the
moment that he signed a deal the
government would come to an end and
those people would would walk out of his
government and here I'm talking about B
fair and Mish and all these right-wing
people and the government would fall
down and this will take Netanyahu to the
court uh so he is buying Time by per by
perpetrating the war and by defying all
these International and domestic uh
pressure but if the convergence you know
continues for a long time with with more
Israeli take to the state I think this
will probably change the game in Israel
all right I guess time will tell thank
you so much Hass barari from
University make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al